# CSGY6233-Project
The discovery of the Meltdown and Spectre vulnerabilities in most modern processors has been detrimental to the reliability of the security of these hardware components. The current workarounds to these vulnerabilities involve operating system (OS) patches and the use of special bound-checking functions for implementation in software programs that run on the systems. Spectre, being a physical flaw in the way processors handle speculative processing, is much harder to patch via software and can only be fully rectified using hardware solutions. There has been research into comparing results from desktop and server systems pre-patch and post-patch, but not a lot of attention on the internet of things (IOT) devices and how those are being secured along with the effect of the patches on performance. Many IOT devices run on ARM processors, which are vulnerable to Spectre. It has been discovered that there is performance degradation on systems with these workarounds and the same is true for IOT devices. This research uses an emulated ARM processor that is utilized in many IOT platforms and which is vulnerable, in order to test the performance of the device both pre-patch and post-patch and verify if the performance degradation is similar in this class of devices. This will demonstrate how difficult it can be to patch a large number of mostly unmanaged devices and what the effects of the patch can have on deterring vendors and users from patching these devices, thus perpetuating the cycle of insecure IOT devices.
